# Go 1.1 is released

The most significant improvements are performance-related.
We have made optimizations in the compiler and linker,
garbage collector, goroutine scheduler, map implementation,
and parts of the standard library.

It is likely that your Go code will run noticeably faster when built with Go 1.1.

## 摘要

1. method value
2. the addition of a race detector
3. expand stand library, changes to go command
4. remains compatible with Go 1.0. 保持了完全兼容
5. Both the gc and gccgo implementations now make int and uint 64 bits on 64-bit platforms


## Unicode

To make it possible to represent code points greater than 65535 in UTF-16, Unicode defines surrogate halves,
a range of code points to be used only in the assembly of large values, and only in UTF-16.
Unicode为了UTF-16编码，竟然在Unicode当中定义了一些surrogate halves.

The code points in that surrogate range are illegal for any other purpose.

In Go 1.1, this constraint is honored by the compiler, libraries, and run-time.
A surrogate half is illegal as a rune value, when encoded as UTF-8. 相当于Unicode转UTF-8.
It is treated as an encoding error and will yield the replacement rune, utf8.RuneError, U+FFFD.

处理方式：

1. constants such as '\ud800' and "\ud800" are now rejected by the compilers.
2. "\xed\xa0\x80"的形式导致编译器无法识别，但是解码未Unicode时，仍返回U+FFFD.

## Performance

1. The gc compilers generate better code in many cases, most noticeably for floating point on the 32-bit Intel architecture.
2. The gc compilers do more in-lining, including for some operations in the run-time such as append and interface conversions.
3. There is a new implementation of Go maps with significant reduction in memory footprint and CPU time
4. The garbage collector has been made more parallel, which can reduce latencies for programs running on multiple CPUs.
5. The garbage collector is also more precise, which costs a small amount of CPU time but can reduce the size of the heap significantly, especially on 32-bit architectures.
6. Due to tighter coupling of the run-time and network libraries, fewer context switches are required on network operations.
