# Go 1.1 is released

Go 1.2 includes a couple of **minor** language changes,
several improvements to the language implementation and tools,
some performance improvements,
and many additions and (backward-compatible) changes to the standard library.

## 摘要

1. 通过二进制或源代码安装
2. A new three-index slice syntax adds the ability to specify capacity as well as length. ```slice = array[2:4:7]```
   This allows the programmer to pass a slice value that can only access a limited portion of the underlying array.
3. compute and display test **coverage** results
4. Goroutines are now pre-emptively **scheduled**
5. Limit on the number of threads
6. Gopher Academy
7. keeps the promise of compatibility

## 协程优化

### Pre-emption in the scheduler

为什么说是部分解决：如果for{}内部没有非内敛函数调用，那么该goroutine会一直霸占着这个线程

In prior releases, a goroutine that was looping forever could starve out other goroutines on the same thread,
a serious problem when GOMAXPROCS provided only one user thread.
In Go 1.2, this is partially addressed: **The scheduler is invoked occasionally upon entry to a function**.
This means that any loop that includes a (non-inlined) function call can be pre-empted, allowing other goroutines to run on the same thread.

### Limit on the number of threads

goroutines are multiplexed onto threads

Go 1.2 introduces a configurable limit (default 10,000) to the total number of threads

### Stack size

In Go 1.2, the minimum size of the stack when a goroutine is created has been lifted from 4KB to 8KB. 这不是一个最终的完美的解决方案

At the other end, the new function SetMaxStack in the runtime/debug package controls the maximum size of a single goroutine's stack.

The default is 1GB on 64-bit systems and 250MB on 32-bit systems.
