# Go 1.3 is released

This release comes six months after our last major release and
provides better performance, improved tools,
support for running Go in new environments, and more.

1. Static analysis features of godoc
2. 支持更多的操作系统，虽然还处在实验阶段，如DragonFly BSD, Plan 9, and Solaris
3. Changes to the runtime have improved the performance
4. The garbage collector is now precise when examining stacks
5. Allocate each Go routine a contiguous piece of memory for its stack, grown by reallocation/copy when it fills up.
   "segmented" model to a contiguous model.
6. For a while now(Go 1.0), the garbage collector has been precise when examining values in the heap;
   the Go 1.3 release adds equivalent precision to values on the stack.


## stack

For a while now(Go 1.0), the garbage collector has been precise when examining values in the heap; the Go 1.3 release adds equivalent precision to values on the stack.

This means that a non-pointer Go value such as an integer will never be mistaken for a pointer and prevent unused memory from being reclaimed.

Starting with Go 1.3, the runtime assumes that values with pointer type contain pointers and other values do not. This assumption is fundamental to the precise behavior of both stack expansion and garbage collection. 

Programs that use package unsafe to store integers in pointer-typed values are illegal and will crash if the runtime detects the behavior.

Programs that use package unsafe to store pointers in integer-typed values are also illegal but more difficult to diagnose during execution.
Because the pointers are hidden from the runtime, a stack expansion or garbage collection may reclaim the memory they point at, creating dangling pointers.
