# Go 1.4 is released

It contains a small language change, support for more operating systems and processor architectures, and improvements to the tool chain and libraries.
As always, Go 1.4 keeps the promise of compatibility, and almost everything will continue to compile and run without change when moved to 1.4.

## 摘要

1. The most notable new feature in this release is official support for Android.
2. Go generate: automate the running of tools to generate source code before compilation.
3. Improving the garbage collector and preparing the ground for a fully concurrent collector to be rolled out in the next few releases
4. much of the runtime code has been translated to Go
5. Other related changes also reduce the heap size, which is smaller by 10%-30% overall
6. interface value holds a pointer.
7. Internal packages
8. Canonical import paths(如何保证client使用的是官方Path)
   To complement this new feature, a check has been added at update time to verify that the local package's remote repository
   matches that of its custom import. The go get -u command will fail to update a package if its remote repository has changed
   since it was first downloaded. The new -f flag overrides this check.

## runtime

- GC

Prior to Go 1.4, the runtime (garbage collector, concurrency support, interface management, maps, slices, strings, ...) was mostly written in C, with some assembler support.

In 1.4, much of the code has been translated to Go so that the garbage collector can scan the stacks of programs in the runtime
and get accurate information about what variables are active.

This rewrite allows the garbage collector in 1.4 to be fully precise, meaning that it is aware of the location of all active pointers in the program.
This means the heap will be smaller as there will be no false positives keeping non-pointers alive.
Other related changes also reduce the heap size, which is smaller by 10%-30% overall relative to the previous release.

- stack

Performance can be noticeably better in some cases and is always more predictable.

the default starting size for a goroutine's stack in 1.4 has been reduced from 8192 bytes to 2048 bytes.

- interface value

The implementation of interface values has been modified.
In earlier releases, the interface contained a word that was either a pointer or a one-word scalar value, depending on the type of the concrete object stored.
This implementation was problematical for the garbage collector, so as of 1.4 interface values always hold a pointer.

In running programs, most interface values were pointers anyway, so the effect is minimal, but programs that store integers (for example) in interfaces will see more allocations.

- performance

The garbage collector was sped up, leading to measurable improvements for garbage-heavy programs.

On the other hand, the new write barriers slow things down again, typically by about the same amount but, depending on their behavior,
some programs may be somewhat slower or faster.
