# Go 1.5 is released

- This release includes **significant** changes to the implementation.
- 19 August 2015

## 摘要

### 重大改变

1. The compiler and runtime are now written entirely in Go (with a little assembler).
   C is no longer involved in the implementation, and so the C compiler that was once necessary for building the distribution is gone.
   在1.4版本中，大部分run time相关的代码由go语言重构（e.g. 堆栈管理器，垃圾回收管理器，并发管理等）
2. The garbage collector was **completely redesigned**. The garbage collector is now concurrent and provides dramatically
   lower pause times by running, when possible, in parallel with other goroutines.
   The "stop the world" phase of the collector will almost always be under 10 milliseconds and usually much less(less than 2ms).
3. Related improvements to the scheduler allowed us to change the default GOMAXPROCS value. in prior releases it defaulted to 1, 现在是CPU的核数
4. Changes to the linker enable building Go packages into archives or shared libraries that may be linked into or loaded by C programs

### 其它重要改变

1. Support for "internal" packages. 避免内部的package被其它项目使用
2. a standard mechanism for managing dependencies in Go programs. 尚处于实验阶段
3. The new "go tool trace" command enables the visualisation of program traces.
4. The new "go doc" command provides an improved command-line interface for viewing Go package documentation.
5. language change: the lifting of a restriction in the map literal syntax.

## Go 1.5 Release Notes

### the lifting of a restriction in the map literal syntax

Due to an oversight, and now

```
m := map[Point]string{
    {29.935523, 52.891566}:   "Persepolis",
    {-25.352594, 131.034361}: "Uluru",
    {37.422455, -122.084306}: "Googleplex",
}
```

### Why the compiler and runtime are now written entirely in Go

- "gc" Go toolchain如下:
    - C program to parse Go code to C/Assembly langurage --> Plan 9 compiler toolchain.
    - assemblers, C compilers, and linkers are adopted essentially unchanged

- Why use 'gc' compiler at start
    - Go did not exist
    - once Go did exist, it often changed in significant
    - 以上问题解决以后，为了Go编译器的长远发展，决定重写。
    - applying an automatic translator
    - go tool compile
    - go too linke
    - go tool asm
    - 源代码安装的时候， a Go compiler must be available to compile the distribution from source.

### Garbage collector

Details of the new collector were presented in a talk at GopherCon 2015.

### Runtime

- In Go 1.5, the order in which goroutines are scheduled has been changed.
- The properties of the scheduler were never defined by the language.
- sets the default number of **threads** to run simultaneously, defined by GOMAXPROCS, to the number of cores available on the CPU.
- The default setting of GOMAXPROCS in all extant Go releases is 1, because programs with frequent goroutine switches ran much slower when using multiple threads.
- It is much cheaper to switch between two goroutines in the same thread than to switch between two goroutines in different threads.
- Goroutine **scheduling affinity** and other improvements to the scheduler have largely addressed the problem







