# Go 1.7 is released

There are several significant changes in this release

- compiler improvements
- the addition of the context package
- support for hierarchical tests and benchmarks
- 170 people contributed to this release, including 140 from the Go community.

## compiler improvements

- A new compiler back end, based on static single-assignment form (SSA), has been under development for the past year.
- By representing a program in SSA form, a compiler may perform advanced optimizations more easily.
- This new back end generates more compact, more efficient code that includes optimizations like bounds check elimination and common subexpression elimination.
- users have observed a significant speedup in compile time and a reduction in binary size by as much as 20–30%.
- We observed a 5–35% speedup across our benchmarks[https://golang.org/test/bench/go1/] 编译、二进制、运行时间均有提升
- Programs should run a bit faster due to speedups in the garbage collector and optimizations in the standard library.
- Programs with many idle goroutines will experience much shorter garbage collection pauses than in Go 1.6.

## Work done in Go 1.7

- The first is the new SSA backend that was enabled for AMD64 in this release. While the primary motivation for SSA was improved performance, the better generated code is also smaller.
    - The SSA backend shrinks Go binaries by ~5%

- The second change is method pruning.
    - Now the compiler discards any unexported methods that do not match an interface.
    - Similarly the linker can discard other exported methods, those that are only accessible through reflection, if the corresponding reflection features are not used anywhere in the program.
    - That change shrinks binaries by 5–20%.

- The SSA backend shrinks Go binaries by ~5%
    - The new format shrinks Go binaries by a further 5–15%

## sub-tests and sub-benchmarks

### 关于并行

- Each test is associated with a test function.
- A test is called a parallel test if its test function calls the Parallel method on its instance of testing.T.
- A parallel test never runs concurrently with a sequential test. 并行测试永远不会与顺序测试并发执行
- its execution is suspended until its calling test function, that of the parent test, has returned.
- The -parallel flag defines the maximum number of parallel tests that can run in parallel.
- A test blocks until its test function returns and all of its subtests have completed. 
     - This means that the parallel tests that are run by a sequential test will complete before any other consecutive sequential test is run.
- NOTE: sub-test内部仍然可以调用Run，创建sub-sub-test

## HTTP Tracing

- a facility to gather fine-grained information throughout the lifecycle of an HTTP client request.
- Support for HTTP tracing is provided by the net/http/httptrace package.
- The httptrace package provides a number of hooks to gather information during an HTTP round trip about a variety of events.
    - Connection creation
    - Connection reuse
    - DNS lookups
    - Writing the request to the wire
    - Reading the response

HTTP tracing is a valuable addition to Go for those who are interested in debugging HTTP request latency and writing
tools for network debugging for outbound traffic. By enabling this new facility, we hope to see HTTP debugging, benchmarking
and visualization tools from the community — such as httpstat
