# gopherCon 2015

## Go, Open Source, Community - by Russ Cox

- Author: Russ Cox(and Rob Pike), tech lead of the go project and the go team at google
- How I see the go project as a whole, and base on that explain how I see the go open source project evolving.

### 1. do less, enable more

- two overarching goals: 1. scalable concurrency for cloud software; 2. go for collaboration(go for open source) to meet the challenges of scalable software development.
- go keywords: routines, channels, interfaces, fast builds, go command, to tools
- the goal balance: do less, enable more. go is not designed to resove everything; go has its own strengths; build foundations on these things for reuse
- the size of the go language itself: put in as few as possible mutually incomprehensible dialects; easy to learn and understand
- channels and goroutines: located at a level between mutex/condition and openMP, expect to handle most of the problems developer may encounted, not all.
- type: go is a static compiled language, but used as dynamicly as possible.
- interface: no implements hierachy like java, make it more flexible.
- testing and Benchmarking: provide most basic concept necessaryly to create a shared vocabulary so that higher-level toolings can interoperate.
- godoc.org

less is exponentially more by Rob Pike

### 2. go and open source

- closed language die, so google have to choose to open source
- they also opened development processes to the public
- the community did many contributions

## Go kit: A Standard Library for Distributed Programming - by Peter Bourgon

- story: modern enterprise: Tech-oriented, Consumer-focused, Successfull-exponential growth, 50-1000 engineers, microservice archtechture
- Twitter, Netflix, Spotify, SoundCloud, Etsy-monolith
- technology radar --> Adopt
- go need to have successful bussiness story on modern enterprise. --> lack of higher-order library support.
- go kit future: 1. higher-order abstrations for microservice; 2. strong idioms and opinioned; 3. ligh weight
- go kit goal: make Go a first-class citizen at the application layer on microservice archtechture.
    - go kit service must paly nice with existing services
    - you bussiness logic should be decoupled from how you access it
    - do not require any specific infrastructure
- Go kit domain:
    - service connectivity
    - service safety
    - service metrics
    - trasport


## Delve Into Go - by Derek Parker

debugger for the go programming language. goals: go centric and easy to use

- why a new debugger
    - gdb decides to crash before tens of people on a meetup
    - gdb is not fit for the other programming languages.
    - go's behavior confuses gdb

- execution model
    - the function after defer is not checked by GDB in which return values maybe changed.
    - bugs in a defer function will never be discoveried.
    - MPG: M - thread, P - processor(GOMAXPROCS), G - goroutine.
    - P: it is the execution context, and also holds the runnable goroutine queue.
    - context switch: at scheduling point, goroutines may switch the underlying thread to another which it runs on.
    - scheduling point: runtime.GoSchedu, Blocking Syscalls, Channel Operations, Garbage Collection, Go Statement
    - GDB do not know go scheduler, context switch will hang the program

- stack management.  dynamic changes makes GDB panic

- compiler optimizations
    - function inlining
    - registerizing variables. you may read a value from register, not from stack, and this may be a garbage value.
    - go build -gcflags="-N -l"
    - dlv run: compile your code with optimization disabled; start you program; attah to your program; ready to debug
    - dlv test, dlv attach, dlv /path/to/file


### A Practical Guide to Preventing Deadlocks and Leaks in Go - by Richard Fliam

- CSP: Communicating, Sequential, Processes
	- C: Communicate by passing messages.
	- S: these processes then executed Sequentially. We try to avoid concurrency in a process itself
	- P: what is processes.
		- a process is not a type. designing for CSP is not the same as designing for OO.
		- it's about inputs , outputs and pieces of execut steps, and the input and output have types.
		- like vending machine, input is a coin, ouput is some kind of food. no attribute about processes.
		- Designing with processes, not a single process.

- Tips for CSP design: 1. Data flow.  2. Drawing.  3. Piplines 4. Exiting
    - Focus on the flow of data, not the flow of control.
    - control flow has its place in a single process.
    - whose in charge? signal the action? belongs to place oriented computing. --> control the flow across multiple processes
    - callback and signal/command are the signs of control flow programming

- Drawing:
    - God processes: 这些协程的工作量太大，往往有多个input和output
    - Rat's Net. 协程很可能做了不该做的事情. 也标志着可能存在进程间的control flow
    - Cycles. dead lock. remove it, 常常出现在routine的退出阶段.
        - With explicit cancellation done with a signal. 这是造成cycle channel的重要原因，解决办法有两个: close channel and context.
        - context: ctx.Done() 和 cancel操作不能出现在同一个协程内.
    - Leak. routine leak --> memory leak. 还是借助context来解决.



### The Value of Values with Rich Hickey(https://gotocon.com/dl/goto-cph-2012/slides/value-of-values.pdf)

- IT
    - IT : information technology
    - inform: 1.to convey knowledge via facts; 2.give shape to the mind.
    - information: just the facts

- facts
    - 以下对信息的认知是错误的. 原因是它将传递信息转换为了传递信息所处的地址(place).
      传递信息变成了传递信息的地址，因为其它线程会并发修改该地址上的信息, 导致传递的信息被改变.
    - fact: where specific information is stored.
    - great: there is a place for **every** piece of information
    - operations: get and set fatcs.
    - **to convey a fact, convey its location**

- Place
    - 解释1：a particular portion of space
    - 解释2: an area used for a particular purpose
    - 解释3：Memory address, disk sector, DB

- 'Information' Systems
    - 基于不同的存储空间的特质，我们构建了不同的系统，如下
    - In memory, **mutable objects are nothing more than abstractions over palces**. 对象只是对内存空间使用的一种抽象
    - In durable storage, tables/documents/records are the abstrations of places
    - 这些系统模型是对place的低级抽象，你操作的本质还是place。因为, objects, tables, documentations, records都是可更改的.

- place oriented programming (plop)
    - 标志：when any information replaces old information, you are doing plop.
    - 历史原因造就了我们选择了PLOP(small RAM and disks)
    - 但是目前RAM和disk已经增长了100w倍，PLOP已不再适用。
    - 回归本质：Mental memory is associative and open; Real records are enduring, and accreting, **not erase and overwrite**.

- Value
    - Relative worth. value的值本身是没有价值的，通过互相的比较(Relative) 才会有意义
    - A particular magnitude(大小), number or amount
    - Precise meaning or significance. value值准确的表达了事物的意义或重要性
    - String is a value. 这也是为什么python、golang中将string设为immutable的原因，这样string之间就可以进行比较, string is a value.

- Programming Value
    - value is immutable
    - value can be shared
    - reproduciable results (test on palces means nothing, easy for testing and debugging)
    - easy to Fabricate. 构造value，我们只需要借助literal.
    - language independent. 大多数编程语言系统都支持
    - aggrrgates: nobody wants to program with mutable strings, why do you want to program with mutable collections
    - Values Are the Best Interface
    - Reduce coordination
    - location flexibility(independent from thread, language, OS)

- facts
    - not places
    - incorperate time  已经发生的事实
    - knowledge is derived from facts, and can be compared and combined. especially from different time points

- IT
    - 基于大数据构建已有基础信息
    - 基于信息作出决策

## Keywords

request tracing:
    goole snapper
    twitter zipkin

circuit breaking:

service discovery

load balancing

rate limit

go-kit domain
    service connectivity
    service safty
    service metrics
    service trasport

go-kit:
    endpoint --> context

logging

